# Content Marketing & SEO


Hands down my favorite resource to teach you everything you need to know about
content marketing and SEO is ahrefs' [Blogging for
Business](https://ahrefs.com/academy/blogging-for-business) by [Tim
Soulo](https://twitter.com/timsoulo). A five hour video course from basic to
advanced topics. Completely free and no signup required.

The second resource I'd recommend is Brian Dean's [Definitive Guide To
SEO](https://backlinko.com/seo-this-year).

The meta-lesson is that if you create incredibly valuable content, let's say a
5-hour course or a long in-depth article, people will share it in their list of
favorite resources and link to it.


## Finding questions people ask

### Keyword research tools

Use something like **ahrefs**, **SEMrush**, **Mangools** to see what people
search for in your space. Those tools show you what people search for online and
how crowded the result pages are already.

You are looking for high search volume with weak and/or bad results.

So instead of guessing which content could perform well, you can filter out a
lot of bad ideas (meaning keywords people don't search for or keywords for which
the top 10 search results are strong sites that you won't have a chance against)
and generate a lot of good ideas.

Don't ignore **Google Keyword Planner.**


### Search forums

Look for your subject on **reddit**, **Quora**, **StackOverflow**, **Twitter**,
**Facebook groups**,
etc. What do people struggle with? What do the actively search for?

Search those questions on Google. Which articles do you find? Do they match the
search intent? Test the questions in your keyword research tool. Generate
adjacent questions. Repeat.


### Use tools that show you questions

- [AnswerThePublic](https://answerthepublic.com/)
- [UberSuggest](https://neilpatel.com/ubersuggest/)


## Distribution

Congrats, you've turned your marketing project into many new marketing projects:
Unless you market your content, no one will pick it up.

Great content is like a flywheel. Great content gets shared and linked to. Pages
with many backlinks rank higher in search. They get visited more often and get
even more links. And so on.


### Use ads

It's extremely difficult to jumpstart that cycle. And while it's important to
distribute your content organically, why not complement this by placing ads?


## Conclusion

Content marketing and SEO are no rocket science. But it's work that you need to
show up for everyday and where the reward might only come months down the line.

On the plus-side getting really good at content marketing and SEO is extremely
valuable and transferrable between industries. You have in effect learnt how to
find out what people are looking for and how to get your content in front of
these people.

If this isn't the essence of marketing, I don't know what is.
